.wip


### TEXT x, y, string$ [,alignment$] [, font] [, scale] [, c] [, bc]

Displays a string on the video output or attached LCD panel starting at 'x' and 'y'. ‘string$’ is the string to be displayed. Numeric data should be converted to a string and formatted using the Str$() function. ' alignment$' is a string expression or string variable consisting of 0, 1 or 2 letters where the first letter is the horizontal alignment around 'x' and can be L, C or R for LEFT, CENTER, RIGHT and the second letter is the vertical alignment around 'y' and can be T, M or B for TOP, MIDDLE, BOTTOM. The default alignment is left/top. For example. “CM” will centre the text vertically and horizontally. The 'alignment$' string can be a constant (eg, “CM”) or it can be a string variable. For backwards compatibility with earlier versions of MMBasic the string can also be unquoted (eg, CM). A a third letter can be used in the alignment string to indicate the rotation of the text. This can be 'N' for normal orientation, 'V' for vertical text with each character under the previous running from top to bottom, 'I' the text will be inverted (i.e. upside down), 'U' the text will be rotated counter clockwise by 90º and 'D' the text will be rotated clockwise by 90º 'font' and 'scale' are optional and default to that set by the FONT command. 'c' is the drawing colour and 'bc' is the background colour. They are optional and default to the current foreground and background colours. See the chapter Graphics Commands and Functions for a definition of the colours and graphics coordinates. VGA OR HDMI VERSIONS MODE 1 ONLY