

### CBC/ECB/CTR key$/key[!/%](), in%(), out%() [,iv$/iv[!/%]()]

vector and prepend out%() with the IV. If an explicit IV is specified this will be used instead of the random vector and this will be prepended to out%() For CBC and CTR decryption the firmware assumes that the first 16 bytes of in%() are the initialisation vector. In the case where you want to transmit a message without IV you can use LONGSTRING RIGHT to remove the IV before sending the message. In this case the recipient must know the IV as well as the key and create a complete longstring before using DECRYPT. This can be done by using LONGSTRING CONCAT to add the incoming message to a longstring containing the IV.

### CBC/ECB/CTR key$/key(), in$/in(), out$/out() [,iv$/iv()]

The parameters can each be either a string, integer array, or float array with any mix possible The key must be 16 elements long (16*8=128bits), in and out must be a multiple of 16 elements long. In the case of out being specified as a string (e.g. out$), the string variable must exist and should be set to empty (DIM out$="") The maximum number of elements in 'in' and 'out' is limited by memory when defined as arrays. Strings for encrypting are limited to 240bytes (EBR) and 224bytes (CTR and CBC). For CBC and CTR encryption you can optionally specify an initialisation vector 'iv'. 'iv' must be 16 elements long (16*8=128bits). If an initialisation vector is not specified encryption will generate a random initialisation vector. In both cases the output is prepended with the IV. For CBC and CTR, decryption requires that the first 16 elements of the input are the initialisation vector. In the case where you want to transmit a message without IV you should remove the IV before sending the message using standard MMBasic manipulations. In this case the recipient must know the IV as well as the key and create a complete message before using DECRYPT by prepending the IV to the incoming message.