## END FUNCTION

definition. For example: FUNCTION xxx (arg1, arg2) AS STRING'arg1', 'arg2', etc are the arguments or parameters to the function (the bracketsare always required, even if there are no arguments). An array is specified byusing empty brackets. i.e. arg3(). The type of the argument can be specifiedby using a type suffix (i.e. arg1$) or by specifying the type using AS <type>(i.e. arg1 AS STRING).The argument can also be another defined function or the same function ifrecursion is to be used (the recursion stack is limited).To set the return value of the function you assign the value to the function'sname. For example: FUNCTION SQUARE(a) SQUARE = a * a END FUNCTIONEvery definition must have one END FUNCTION statement. When this isreached the function will return its value to the expression from which it wascalled. The command EXIT FUNCTION can be used for an early exit.You use the function by using its name and arguments in a program just as youwould a normal MMBasic function. For example: PRINT SQUARE(56.8)When the function is called each argument in the caller is matched to theargument in the function definition. These arguments are available only insidethe function.Functions can be called with a variable number of arguments. Any omittedarguments in the function's list will be set to zero or a null string.Arguments in the caller's list that are a variable and have the correct type willbe passed by reference to the function. This means that any changes to thecorresponding argument in the function will also be copied to the caller'svariable and therefore may be accessed after the function has ended. Theargument can be prefixed with BYVAL which will prevent this mechanism andcause only the value to be used. Alternatively, the prefix BYREF instructsMMBasic that a reference is required and an error will be generated if thatcannot be done.Arrays are passed by specifying the array name with empty brackets (eg, arg())and are always passed by reference and must be the correct type.You must not jump into or out of a function using commands like GOTO.Doing so will have undefined side effects including ruining your day.